Title: Saving the World, one Patch at a Time

Subtitle: Climate quilt gives children a voice in fighting for the environment

Content:
Section: (A)
The world’s children are joining the fight against climate change. And they are doing it one fabric patch at a time through an international initiative called the Climate Quilt Campaign, which encourages young people everywhere to help protect the environment.
Using recycled clothing, children in the United States, Australia, China, New Zealand, Britain, the Philippines, Canada, and South Africa designed ‘pledge patches’ depicting how they promised to work on environmental stewardship.

Section: (B) Crafeteria
Last month, thousands of patches arrived in a small-town store in Pennsylvania, USA where volunteers gathered to sew them together into a huge quilt.
Craftereia, a family-run business in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania sells yarn, sewing machines and all kinds of fabrics.
When Steve Chubin and his wife, Karen, opened their store in 1990, they dreamed of a place where their neighbours could gather, not just to buy fabric and thread, but to mingle and learn crafts like quilting and embroidery. That is exactly what Craftereia is today.

Section: (C)
The couple’s involvement in the campaign began one evening when Karen was watching TV and saw a story about the Climate Quilt Campaign. She was intrigued by the connection between conservation and quilting and wanted to learn more about the project.
‘Quilting is actually one of the best and most old-fashioned ways of recycling,’ she says. ‘Old fabrics, that’s what a quilt is made of, can be sewn together with any type of material, sometimes decorated with embroidery to make a creative bedspread or wall hanging.’
In the television report, Karen listened to Lisa Kemmerer, the campaign’s spokeswoman, describe the global initiative. ‘…We encourage children to make a pledge to help the environment which they write onto a piece of fabric or old T-shirts or anything that’s recycled.’
Kemmerer appealed for volunteers to help sew the pledge patches together into a quilt and Karen immediately put in a call to the organizers who were happy to accept her offer for help.
When Karen heard that the Climate Quilt Campaign had collected 2,500 patches from children in the USA alone and more than 5,000 internationally, Karen made her own pledge to organize a day where Craftereia could donate their equipment and invite volunteers to come and sew the patches together.
‘We couldn’t have finished the job without the help of the local community,’ Kemmerer stated. ‘We’re a small not-for-profit campaign working on a shoe-string budget.’
Steve Chubin was equally amazed at the positive response from the community. He emailed 5,000 people about the project and many responded saying they wanted to be involved and to support a good cause.

Section: (D)
One teacher who received an email, invited the students in her school to take part. Five-year-old Dylan worked with his classmates on a small quilt. ‘We all made different pledges and we wrote our ages and our names,’ he says.
Dylan pledged to use less water when washing his hands while fourteen-year-old Rachel and her brother Jacob, who is two years younger, had other ideas.
‘A lot of people don’t finish what’s on their plate and end up throwing away a lot of food. But if they had to eat their leftovers, it would help a lot,’ says Rachel.
‘My pledge was to put paper, plastic, glass and metal waste into different recycling containers instead of in the rubbish bin,’ Jacob says.
Eleven-year-old Patrick says the climate quilt project was a chance for him to lend a hand and express his creativity.
‘I learned that recycling is important,’ Patrick says. ‘And you should do it every day when you get an opportunity. I drew some smiley faces to reflect my personality.’
Shauna Munshower’s four children made pledge patches for the Climate Quilt. She says the project was a fun learning experience for them.
The campaign has made them think about the way they behave and she believes that small actions could spread through the example of children. She adds, ‘It will also be good if they got interested in quilting and sewing. That would be nice, I would like that.’
Phyllis Smith liked the idea and decided to volunteer. ‘I’m sewing together the beautiful strips that the kids have made,’ she says. ‘They are fantastic. You read them and go, “Wow.” We’re supposed to be sewing and we can’t sew while we’re reading them — how great they are!’

Section: (E)
According to the campaign’s spokeswoman, the Climate Quilt Campaign empowers kids. ‘I guess it’s just important that they feel they can effect change, that they can be a part of something and see how it makes a difference to them and the world. That’s the ultimate goal of the Climate Quilt and future campaigns,’ says Kemmerer.
‘After this campaign, there are other ways we’re going to try to engage students as well,’ she says. ‘We will be doing campaigns throughout the year focusing on all different things. So this campaign focused on climate, the next one might focus on endangered animals or recycling school supplies or healthy eating.’
The finished quilt, made of 7,500 patches, was displayed in Washington, D.C. and New York City to celebrate Earth Day. But kids everywhere can still visit the campaign’s website to create their virtual pledge patches — and show how much they care about the environment.